CGHN = Coulson, Goodman, Hodgson, Neumann, 'Computing arithmetic invariants of 3-manifolds', Experiment. Math. 9 (2000) -- the two passages B1239 reads (extracted from the PDF on the bench 2026-09-02 with pymupdf; page numbers as in the arXiv/print layout: §5, pp. 14-15). Only the sentences relied on are excerpted; everything else in the cell is derived, not quoted.

--- p.14: cs multiplies by degree; the Dehn-filling decomposition; the modulo-1/2 convention ---
cs(M) also has algebraic signiﬁcance; it is closely tied to the Bloch invariant, an
algebraic/number-theoretic invariant which we describe in the next section.
A less signiﬁcant reason is that cs(M) multiplies by degree in coverings, so it is a
tool for commensurability questions. However, the behaviour of η(M) for coverings
is also well understood (and related to other interesting invariants, see e.g., [1, 23]).
[...]
For hyperbolic 3-manifolds Meyerhoﬀ[18] extended the deﬁnition of cs(M) to
allow M to have cusps. The point is that if M ′ is a compact manifold obtained by
Dehn ﬁlling M then cs(M ′) is naturally the sum of a term that varies analytically
on hyperbolic Dehn ﬁlling space and a discontinuous summand (−1
2π times the sum
of torsions of the geodesics added by Dehn ﬁlling), see [32] and [42]. So one deﬁnes
cs(M) as the value of the analytic term at the complete hyperbolic structure on M.
This leads to an invariant cs(M) of a hyperbolic 3-manifold M in R/ 1
2Z. If M is
closed the Chern-Simons invariant is well deﬁned modulo 1, but Snap and SnapPea
still only compute modulo 1
2. This is no real loss, since the Chern-Simons invariant
of a closed manifold M modulo 1 can also be computed from the ﬁrst homology of
M together with the eta-invariant η(M), both of which Snap can also compute.
Another signiﬁcance of cs(M) for a hyperbolic 3-manifold is that it has natural

--- p.15: the APS relation as printed ---
as above. If k > 1 then M may not be the boundary of any X, but the disjoint
union 2M of 2 copies of M is a boundary, so this formula can be used to deﬁne
η(2M), and hence deﬁne η(M) as 1
2η(2M).
The relation of η(M) to cs(M) for a compact 3-manifold M is ([1]):
3η(M) ≡2 cs(M) + τ
(mod 2),
where τ is the number of 2-primary summands of H1(M; Z). Thus η(M) completely
determine cs(M) if M has known homology. There is also a cusped version of this
— Meyerhoﬀand Ouyang [20] extended the deﬁnition of η(M) to cusped M for
which one has chosen a basis of homology at each cusp.
